---
layout: post
title:  "Starting the Blog and New Buttons"
date:   2019-11-20 06:00:00 -0500
categories: controls season2
---
Hey!

I'm finally getting down my Soulcalibur thoughts! Let's get right to it.

Season 2 is coming out next Monday, and we're all going over this and that, but there's one minor change that people are over looking.

"In OPTION, 1 action can now be allocated to 2 different buttons"

This is absolutely huge for me, especially since it comes out as Hilde is arriving. One of the very first things I noticed about Soulcalibur 6 when it released was that you map inputs to buttons, as opposed to mapping buttons to inputs. What this meant was that you could only have, for example, A set to one button. As a Hilde main, I always had A set to X and L1 (that's the bottom left and top right buttons on my Hitbox, respectively). This meant that I could hold an A charge with my pinky while having the rest of my hand open to do any inputs as I saw fit. With Soulcalibur 6's original control scheme, this was impossible, and something I was always nervous about in case they ever did release Hilde. With Season 2, though, it's now completely possible! It may not be ideal for some, as it looks like only 2 buttons can be set to an action, but that's good enough for most of us. Mapping an action to 3 or more buttons can become excessive. This is also great news for characters with slide moves. Now they can set up a sliding input however they want (I would always make the bottom left 3 buttons A, G, A when playing Siegfried or Nightmare) without worrying too much about their standard buttons moving around!