---
layout: post
title:  "Early Hilde Thoughts"
date:   2019-12-03 19:30:00 -0500
categories: [hilde]
tags: [thoughts, unstructured, hilde]
---

Alright, Hilde's out and I've played her for a while. This post isn't going to be as structured as my other stuff and yes, that final article on match ups is coming eventually. I've just been so busy with all this Season 2, NEC, and Thanksgiving stuff. Alright, here we go.

So this is all my opinion from only 1 week of playing her, keep that in mind please, but to me, Hilde is pretty much the same as she was in SCV. Sure, specifics have changed, and a lot of stuff got both weaker and easier, but she's still mainly about forcing whiffs for big punish damage. Her 22B still exists, just as 22B+K, now. It's also strangely weaker, as it doesn't tech crouch for as long as before and it doesn't step as much as it used to. Her charge moves are no longer timing based, except the unblockables of course, and meta wise, her plus on block charge A move now exists again. Her old C3A was absolutely demolished by just guard in neutral. This effectively means she no longer gets punished for accidentally holding A for too long, but that was never intentional in SCV. Her unblockable timing is back to 30 seconds like in SCIV, and her unblockable B is still a meme. I still think her unblockable A is a real tool, not a common one, but a real one. I actually thought at first that putting the timer back to 30 seconds would make it not a move, but in practice I've actually been holding A for that long without even trying at some points, so CA4 UB is still totally a move in my opinion. She has some nasty mix up now, but I'll save that for a bit later.

Her backstep is still really good, so she can use that like before to run away to force stuff to whiff. Her sidestep is garbo compared to SCV, though, and that feel really weird to me. It really weakens her vertical killing game, especially 22B+K. It's so weird to me that step is better in 6, but she's worse at it than 5. A lot of verticals feel wider to me in this game than 5, too. Speaking of, her kicks are more linear than I remember them being. With that and sidestep lethal hits being a thing, her 66K is much worse in this game even though it's barely changed at all. Whiff punishing is way easier for her now, though. She doesn't need to rely on having a B charge to do good damage with her new 3B. Her old one was a bit of a nightmare to be able to get in and use, although Hawkeye was a beast at that. This one has much better effective range and a long range sour spot hit instead of just whiffing. If she has sword regalia, she can also throw out a CA6A+B for similar damage, but worse oki, to her old C3A. That might not be great on paper, but since charge A as a neutral tool to hold exists in this game, it's a pretty good trade off in my opinion. 4B and 44B are great for specific punishes where she needs disjointed attacks, but oh boy, they're good at something else.

Hilde's keep out game in SCVI is insane. 44B is as good as it ever was, she now has 4B, and so much of her stuff just throws people way over there. Not only does so much stuff easily combo into her CB5 (old C1B) now, she gets paid with spear regalia when she hits with it, so she gets solid damage, a blue spear, and huge distance when she wants it. It feels like they have so much put her far from her opponent to avoid her having a monsterous vortex game, but against most of the cast, having them way over there is still incredibly good. I would even argue that she can contest Mina and Ivy at that range, although Zas is frustratingly safe. (I still think he's one of the top characters in the game, he just has almost no representation) She doesn't have dumb keep out like Mina, though, she needs to be smarter about it. Mina can push you out easily by having you block, while Hilde needs to actually hit for meaningful pushback. (Speaking of Mina, if you want roughly Hilde's playstyle, but you don't want to juggle power ups and charge moves, just play Mina. She's much easier.) Her keep out is different than the other zoners and zoner lite characters, though, she has no long range horizontals. Big difference here, though, is she doesn't need to keep you out, so she can just fly in and start using her A moves whenever she wants. This kind of paradoxically makes her keep out game that much more powerful as she can pretty much just end it at any time by running in and hard countering the 1 big answer to her keep out moves, step.

And man can she kill step. Like before (or at least how it was supposed to be), her charge A series are safe horizontal mids (for the most part). They're i18, so they're not broken, but they're so good. She gets stray charge A hits all of the time, giving her sword regalia. She can't directly threaten with it like she can with spear, but it can seriously augment her pressure and it threatens to very nasty punishers, 3KA and 4A+BA. Yes, 4A+BA is a punisher. There are a lot of canned strings in this game that move can blow up. It really is used more as a soft read tool against normal strings. That's still a huge threat, though, as it launches for maybe RO, does big damage, and combos back into charge A, or B if you want, giving you back your regalia, or even switching over to spear for that damage threat.

Her spear regalia opens up some really big damage and a hellsweep. They decided in this game that Hilde needed to have good mix up in neutral. I have no idea where this came from, but I'll take it. Hellsweep, I'm talking about FC 3KBB here, is so scary that I've been able to scare Saiyne by just running up to him, crouching, and doing nothing. And, again, on hit it leaves them way over there, which is really good for her. Thinking about it, she really can seriously leverage a knockdown at every range. The other thing that's starting to crop up in the Hilde meta is her 4B+KB. A safe, confirmable, counter hit launcher that does great guard damage. On break it even lethals for about 100. This move is just really obviously good, and is the cornerstone of her current ring out game, in my opinion, since it launches so far. What we aren't seeing a lot of, though, is neutral CB6B+K. Her CB6 launches for great damage, but it's a really bad idea to just throw out since it's -16 on block. The thing is, Hilde's so new that people are getting away with this. I think we'll start seeing a lot of Hildes launch fishing with CB6B+K, which is -8 on block, in the future. It's also one of her only tools that pulls in on block, which can be a pretty good anti zoner tool if she really wants to get in.

There's still a lot I didn't go over or that I glossed over, but these are my main thoughts. I do have some stray thoughts that I couldn't get to fit in my train of thought above. I feel like she can really control the match, but that could also be people just not used to her yet. I've been able to get people nervous enough and her block pressure is so good, that I've been able to get a break a round in some matches. Her super is so silly that I wonder what they were thinking when they made it. Her soul charge pressure is a bit terrifying, but we'll see how that holds as people get used to her. 2B+KK is really silly, but also strangely useful. Her 12 frame punish game kind of sucks, but it's not the worst. None of her throws ring out anymore, so that's sad. CA4 is really really good. That's about it for now. I'll be slowly building out info in the big Hilde book you can find in [resources][resources-page]. If I have any more post length thoughts on her new kit, I'll put them up. I might do the history of loops at one point. See you around!

[resources-page]: /resources